if your vehicle is wobbling or swaying
or you have another front end suspension
issue you might have a problem with one
of your ball joints hi I'm Barbara Terry
with Auto md normal wear and tear and
excessive driving will wear out your
ball joint this is a major safety hazard
which needs to be addressed immediately
parts and tools needed you will need a
new ball joint for this repair you will
also need a lug nut wrench or tire iron
a torque wrench a set of sockets and
ratchets a set of wrenches a hammer a
long pry bar and a ball joint removal
tool your own vehicles components and
parts may differ so always refer to your
vehicle's owners manual for details for
your safety we recommend wearing safety
glasses latex gloves and closed toed
shoes when working on your vehicle park
your vehicle in a level surface this
will ensure your car will not roll or
lean when lifting it with a jack the use
of an aftermarket jack can work much
quicker than a manufacturer's secure the
vehicle with jack stands on both sides
for safety before starting any work on
the underside of your vehicle remove the
front wheels by loosening or pulling off
the lug nuts that are holding the Rams
on find the correct size socket and
large ratchet or tire iron and turn them
counterclockwise it is a good idea to
break the lug nuts free before you lift
the wheels off the ground this way you
will not spin the wheel or put stress on
the gears in your gearbox support the
lower control arm with a floor jack
close to the ball joint remove the
cotter pin from the ball joint retaining
nut loosen the nut by turning it a few
times
next separate the ball joint from the
knuckle by using a ball joint separator
remove the nut and secure the knuckle
out of the way using a ball joint
installation and removal tool press the
ball joint out of the lower control arm
press the new ball joint into the
control arms using the installation and
removal tool reinstall the steering
knuckle back into the control arm ball
joint assembly toward the castle nut to
the manufacturer's specifications
install a new cotter pin reinstall the
wheels torque the lug nuts to the
manufacturer's specifications after
replacing suspension components always
have the alignment checked at a
certified repair shop on behalf of auto
MD I'm Barbara Terry with how to replace
a ball joint